Source - https://sra.gov.in/faq

Registration
What is the minimum number of promoters required to join the registration proposal?
51% of the flat purchasers/ promoters are required to join the registration proposal if building is constructed by builder/developer. 90% promoters are required to join the registration proposal for society of open plot type category

What is the currency used for all transactions?
Cooperative Housing Society having less than 10 units can be registered subject to the following conditions: · The built up area of each unit should not be more than 700 sq. ft. · There should not be balance F.S.I

What is the remedy available, if the builder does not register a co-operative housing society?
Chief Promoter of the proposed society shall submit a registration proposal of the co-operative housing society to the concerned Registrar under the category of non- co-operation of builder. Registrar may consider such a proposal for Registration on merit.

What are the conditions for registration of Cooperative Housing Society in private building?
Conditions for registration of CHS in Private building Registering authority can register CHS on merit if 90% of the tenants join the registration proposal. Registering authority can register CHS on merit and with previous approval of State Government if 75% to 90% of the tenants join the registration proposal. Proposal for registration will not be entertained if percentage of tenants is below 75% The Tenant promoter joining the proposed CHS shall have to agree to contribute to the cost of flats of non joining tenants. In case tenants have created sub tenancy in terms of Rent Act, sub tenants and not the tenants be allowed to join the proposed CHS.

Whether the Chief Promoters has got authority to withdraw the money deposited in the bank in the name of proposed CHS?
The Chief Promoter has got no power to withdraw such money. Before registration of the Cooperative Housing Society, money can be withdrawn with the permission of the Registrar.

What is the remedy available if the Registrar does not take any decision on registration proposal within a period of 2 months?
Failure to dispose of the registration proposal of a housing society within a period of two months, the Registrar has to submit the said registration proposal to the next higher authority within a period of 15 days from the date of expiry of two months. On failure of such higher authority to dispose of the said registration proposal within two months from the date of receipt of the proposal to his office, the registration proposal shall be deemed to be registered under the provision of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act 1960.

What is the remedy available if the registration proposal is rejected?
Such rejection order can be challenged by filing appeal under section 152 of the M.C.S. Act 1960 before the Divisional Joint Registrar C.S. of the concerned Division.

What are the circumstances for de-registration of a Cooperative Housing Society? And under which section?
Such societies can be de-registered under the provision of Section 21-A of the M.C.S. Act 1960. If the society is registered. On the misrepresentation made by the applicants, or The work of the society is completed or exhausted, or, The purpose for which the society has been registered is not served.

What is the minimum number of promoters required to sign the registration proposal?
60% of the promoters who have joined the registration proposal are required to sign it.



GMS

When will the next committee be constituted?
After the election of the committee as per the approved election rules, the subsequent committee is constituted. An Election Committee is required to be constituted as per the provisions of Section 73 of the M.C.S. Act 1960.

Who is the competent authority to challenge the election?
The selection of the Committee or its member can be challenged by filing a dispute under Section 91 of the M.C.S. Act 1960. Before the Co-operative Court.

Can former committee members contest elections or not?
Ex-Managing Committee members may contest elections if otherwise qualified.



Committee

What is the period of the provisional committee?
The period of the provisional committee is one year from the date of which it has been first constituted.

Which is the Competent Authority to challenge the election?
Election of Committee or its member can be challenged by filing dispute under Section 91 of M.C.S. Act 1960. Before the Cooperative court.

What are the disqualifications to elect or to remain on the committee?
Bye-laws No. 118 provides one of the following disqualifications to remain on Committee

What is the remedy available if the committee members default the payments of dues CHS?
A Committee member who defaults the payment of dues of CHS incur disqualification to remain on committee. Remedy is to approach registering authority for removal of such committee member




Funds

How many funds are required to be raised by CHS?
Funds to be raised by CHS are The repair and maintenance funds at the rate fixed by G.B subject to the minimum of 0.75 % per annum of construction cost of each flat.Major repairs funds as and when required and decided by GB at the rate fixed on area basis.The sinking funds at the rate fixed by G. B subject to the minimum of 0.25% per annum of construction cost of each flat.Reserve funds as provided u/s 66 of the M.C.S Act 1960.

What is the difference in utilization of repairs and maintenance fund and major repairs fund?
Repairs and maintenance funds is utilized for meeting the expenditure on maintenance and normal repairs of the building of CHS by committee. Major repairs fund is utilized with prior approval of G.B. for major repairs such as plastering, Colour of buildings etc.

When Sinking Funds are to be utilized?
Sinking funds are to be utilized on recommendations of architect and with prior approval of G.B for meeting the expenditure on structural additions or alterations to the building /buildings of CHS.



Amalgamation/Amendment/Divison

What remedy is available for CHS not repairing the flat?
Members may file disputes before the Cooperative Court under Section 91 of the MCS Act, 1960.

What are the circumstances of amalgamation or division of the CHS?
CHS can be divided under the following circumstances There shall be two or more different buildings.Each building shall have separate water tanks and water connections.There shall be a separate assessment by the local authority.

Whether the Registrar is empowered to enforce division of the CHS?
In the interest of the member, the Registrar may enforce division of the CHS.

Whether an amendment can be imposed by the Registrar?
In the interest of members of the Society Registrar may impose amendment of bye-laws u/s 14 of M.C.S. Act 1960.


Membership

Who can become a member of the CHS?
A persons who is competent to contact under the Indian Contract Act 1872 A firm company or any other body corporate constituted under any law for the time being in force, or a society registered under the societies Registration Act 1860, A society registered or deemed to be registered under MCS Act 1960, or A State Government or the Central Government, or A Local Authority, orA public trust registered or to be registered.

What procedure is required to be followed by a person to become a member of a CHS?
Procedure for becoming member.An application in the prescribed form giving complete details shall be submitted to CHSShall pay the value of ten shares of Rs 50/- each along with payment of Rs 100/- towards entrance fee.Undertaking as prescribed in the bye law are to be submitted.A copy of stamped and registered purchased agreement.

What is a remedy available, if a society refuses a membership of the member?
A person whose membership application is not accepted by CHS may apply to the Registrar u/s 23 (1A) in the prescribed H-1 form.




Recovery of Dues

Whether the managing committee is empowered to collect transfer premium more than Rs 25,000.- if general body passed such resolution?
Bye law no. 38 provides that the CHS may collect amount of premium at the rate to be fixed by the General Body meeting but within the limits as prescribed under the circular issued by the Department of Co-operation, Government of Maharashtra from time to time and therefore the general body's resolution contradicting the Government circular shall not be acted upon.

Whether the managing committee can charge the transfer premium in case of mutual exchange of flat by members?
Bye-law No. 38 bars the CHS for collecting transfer premium for mutual exchange of flat amongst the member in the CHS.

Whether the managing committee of the CHS has authority to collect the transfer premium for transfer of flat in family member?
Bye-law No 38 bars the CHS for collecting transfer premium for transfer of flat to family members.

Whether a member can transfer share or his interest withing a period of one year?
Section 29 (2) provides that member cannot transfer any share held by him or his interest in the capital or property unless and until he has held such share or interest for a period of one year.


When non occupancy charges can be collected by CHS?
Non-occupancy charges can be collected by CHS only when member has rented out his flat or given on leave and license basis.




Repairs

What remedy is available of CHS is not carrying out repairs of the flat?
Member may file dispute u/s 91 of the MCS Act 1960 before Cooperative Court.

Is members who reside in upper flat and carries out interior. A member “A” is having terrace flat. Plaster of ceiling of flat is damaged whether can be repaired by CHS from its funds?
Yes, the same can be repaired by CHS from its funds.

Whether a member can claim compensation to repairs carried out by him
For compensations of the repairs carried out by member of behalf of the CHS, he may file dispute in the Cooperative Court u/s 91 of MCS Act 1960 if CHS refuse to give him required credit.




Income Tax/ Stamp Duty

What are the taxable incomes of CHS?
Transfer premium,Income gained from installation of dish antenna,Income gained from renting out premises of CHS,Interest earned from default in payment s by members,Interest earned on deposits,Income earned from sell of F.S.I.

Whether CHS is liable to deduct I.T at source in respect of payments made by it to the contractor?
Yes, CHS is liable to deduct I.T. At source for its payments to contractor.

Whether excess collection from the members over actual expenditure is treated as income?
Such excess collection from members over expenditure is not treated as income for the purpose of levying IT.

In what form CHS is required to file return?
C.H.S. is required to file return in Form No. 2

Whether CHS is required to pay income tax?
Yes, CHS is required to pay income tax
